README.md, before:

## Library for reading SDM72 SDM120 SDM220 SDM230 SDM630 Modbus Energy meters. ##

### SECTIONS: ###
#### 1. [INTRODUCTION](#introduction) ####
#### 2. [SCREENSHOTS](#screenshots) ####
#### 3. [CONFIGURING](#configuring) ####
#### 4. [INITIALIZING](#initializing) ####
#### 5. [READING](#reading) ####
#### 6. [PROBLEMS](#problems) ####
#### 7. [CREDITS](#credits) ####

---

### Introduction: ###
This library allows you reading SDM module(s) using:
- [x] Hardware Serial (<i><b>recommended option</b>, smallest number of reads errors, especially for esp8266</i>) <b><i>or</i></b>
- [x] Software Serial, attached as core libraries for esp8266 and avr</br>
     (<i>the new version of esp Software Serial library</br>
      has a different initialization compared to avr!</br>
      <b>This version of SDM library (2.0.8) works only with esp Software Serial 6.0.0 or higher!!!</b></br>
      If you have an older esp Software Serial version</br>
      then use other SDM library, details below the Credits section</i>)</br>

you also need rs232<->rs485 converter:
- [x] with automatic flow direction control (<i>look at images below</i>) <b><i>or</i></b>
- [x] with additional pins for flow control, like MAX485</br>
     (<i>in this case MAX485 DE and RE pins must be connected together to one of uC pin</br>
     and this pin must be passed when initializing the library</i>)

_Tested on Wemos D1 Mini with Arduino IDE 1.8.3-1.8.10 & ESP8266 core 2.3.0-2.5.2_

---

### Screenshots: ###
<img src="https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/img/hardware_sdm220_1.jpg" height="330"><img src="https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/img/hardware_sdm220_2.jpg" height="330"></br>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/img/livepage.gif"></br>
  <i>live page example (extended) screenshot</i>
</p>

---

### Configuring: ###
Default configuration is specified in the [SDM.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM.h#L18) file, and parameters are set to:</br>
<i>Software Serial mode, baud 4800, uart config SERIAL_8N1, without DE/RE pin,</br>
uart pins for esp32 hwserial and esp32/esp8266/avr swserial as NOT_A_PIN (-1).</br></br>
For esp32 hwserial this means using the default pins for the selected uart port,</br>
specified in the core library (HardwareSerial.cpp).</br>
For swserial option (esp32/esp8266/avr) is necessary</br>
to specify the pin numbers, as described below.</i>

User can set the parameters in two ways:
- by editing the [SDM_Config_User.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM_Config_User.h) file
- by passing values during initialization (section below)

NOTE for Hardware Serial mode: <i>to force the Hardware Serial mode,</br>
user must edit the corresponding entry in [SDM_Config_User.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM_Config_User.h#L17) file.</br>
adding #define USE_HARDWARESERIAL to the main ino file is not enough.</i>

---

### Initializing: ###
If the user configuration is specified in the [SDM_Config_User.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM_Config_User.h) file</br>
or if the default configuration from the [SDM.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM.h#L18) file is suitable</br>
initialization is limited to passing serial port reference (software or hardware)</br>
and looks as follows:
```cpp
//lib init when Software Serial is used:
#include <SDM.h>
#include <SoftwareSerial.h>

// for ESP8266 and ESP32
SoftwareSerial swSerSDM;
//              _______________________________software serial reference
//             |
SDM sdm(swSerSDM);


// for AVR
SoftwareSerial swSerSDM(SDM_RX_PIN, SDM_TX_PIN);
//                               |           |_tx pin definition(from SDM_Config_User.h)
//                               |_____________rx pin definition(from SDM_Config_User.h)
//
//              _______________________________software serial reference
//             |
SDM sdm(swSerSDM);
```

```cpp
//lib init when Hardware Serial is used:
#include <SDM.h>

//            _________________________________hardware serial reference
//           |
SDM sdm(Serial);
```
If the user wants to temporarily change the configuration during the initialization process</br>
then can pass additional parameters as below:
```cpp
//lib init when Software Serial is used:
#include <SDM.h>
#include <SoftwareSerial.h>

// for ESP8266 and ESP32
SoftwareSerial swSerSDM;
//              ________________________________________software serial reference
//             |      __________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |           _______________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |              _________software uart config(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |             |    _____rx pin number(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |             |   |    _tx pin number(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |             |   |   | 
SDM sdm(swSerSDM, 9600, NOT_A_PIN, SWSERIAL_8N1, 13, 15);


// for AVR
SoftwareSerial swSerSDM(10, 11);
//              ________________________________________software serial reference
//             |      __________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)   
//             |     |           _______________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |
SDM sdm(swSerSDM, 9600, NOT_A_PIN);
```

```cpp
//lib init when Hardware Serial is used:
#include <SDM.h>

// for ESP8266
//            ______________________________________hardware serial reference
//           |      ________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |           _____________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |            _________hardware uart config(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |       __swap hw serial pins from 3/1 to 13/15(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |      |
SDM sdm(Serial, 9600, NOT_A_PIN, SERIAL_8N1, false);


// for ESP32
//            ______________________________________hardware serial reference
//           |      ________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |           _____________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |            _________hardware uart config(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |    _____rx pin number(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |   |    _tx pin number(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |   |   | 
SDM sdm(Serial, 9600, NOT_A_PIN, SERIAL_8N1, 13, 15);


// for AVR
//            ______________________________________hardware serial reference
//           |      ________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |           _____________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |            _________hardware uart config(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |
//           |     |          |           |
SDM sdm(Serial, 9600, NOT_A_PIN, SERIAL_8N1);
```
NOTE for ESP8266: <i>when GPIO15 is used (especially for swapped hardware serial):</br>
some converters (like mine) have built-in pullup resistors on TX/RX lines from rs232 side,</br>
connection this type of converters to ESP8266 pin GPIO15 block booting process.</br>
In this case you can replace the pull-up resistor on converter with higher value (100k),</br>
to ensure low level on GPIO15 by built-in in most ESP8266 modules pulldown resistor.</br></i>

---

### Reading: ###
List of available registers for SDM72/120/220/230/630:</br>
https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM.h#L90
```cpp
//reading voltage from SDM with slave address 0x01 (default)
//                                         ____register name
//                                        |
float voltage = sdm.readVal(SDM_PHASE_1_VOLTAGE);

//reading power from 1st SDM with slave address ID = 0x01
//reading power from 2nd SDM with slave address ID = 0x02
//useful with several meters on RS485 line
//                                      _______register name
//                                     |       SDM device ID  
//                                     |      |
float power1 = sdm.readVal(SDM_PHASE_1_POWER, 0x01);
float power2 = sdm.readVal(SDM_PHASE_1_POWER, 0x02);
```
NOTE: <i>if you reading multiple SDM devices on the same RS485 line,</br>
remember to set the same transmission parameters on each device,</br>
only ID must be different for each SDM device.</i>

---

### Problems: ###
Sometimes <b>readVal</b> return <b>NaN</b> value (not a number),</br>
this means that the requested value could not be read from the sdm module for various reasons.</br>

__Please check out open and close issues, maybe the cause of your error is explained or solved there.__

The most common problems are:
- weak or poorly filtered power supply / LDO, causing NaN readings and ESP crashes</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/13#issuecomment-353532711</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/13#issuecomment-353572909</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/8#issuecomment-381402008</br>
- faulty or incorrectly prepared converter</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/16#issue-311042308</br>
- faulty esp module</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/8#issuecomment-381398551</br>
- many users report that between each readings should be placed <i>delay(50);</i></br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/7#issuecomment-272080139</br>
  (I did not observe such problems using the HardwareSerial connection)</br>
- using GPIO15 without checking signal level (note above)</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/17#issue-313606825</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/13#issuecomment-353413146</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/13#issuecomment-353417658</br>
- compilation error for hardware serial mode</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/23</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/24</br>

You can get last error code using function:
```cpp
//get last error code
//                                      ______optional parameter,
//                                     |      true -> read and reset error code
//                                     |      false or no parameter -> read error code
//                                     |      but not reset stored code (for future checking)
//                                     |      will be overwriten when next error occurs
uint16_t lasterror = sdm.getErrCode(true);

//clear error code also available with:
sdm.clearErrCode();
```
Errors list returned by <b>getErrCode</b>:</br>
https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM.h#L73</br>

You can also check total number of errors using function:
```cpp
//get total errors counter
//                                       _____optional parameter,
//                                      |     true -> read and reset errors counter
//                                      |     false or no parameter -> read errors counter
//                                      |     but not reset stored counter (for future checking)
uint16_t cnterrors = sdm.getErrCount(true);

//clear errors counter also available with:
sdm.clearErrCount();
```

And finally you can read the counter of correctly made readings:
```cpp
//get total success counter
//                                         ___optional parameter,
//                                        |   true -> read and reset success counter
//                                        |   false or no parameter -> read success counter
//                                        |   but not reset stored counter (for future checking)
uint16_t cntsuccess = sdm.getSuccCount(true);

//clear success counter also available with:
sdm.clearSuccCount();
```

---

### Credits: ###

contribution to this project:</br>
:+1: ESP SoftwareSerial library by Peter Lerup (https://github.com/plerup/espsoftwareserial)</br>
:+1: crc calculation by Jaime García (https://github.com/peninquen/Modbus-Energy-Monitor-Arduino)</br>
:+1: new registers for SDM120 and SDM630 by bart.e (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/3)</br>
:+1: new registers for SDM72 by jegaha (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/34)</br>
:+1: new registers for SDM120CT by jeroenst (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/41)</br>
:+1: additional SDM630 registers and influxdb example by AndersV209 (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/45)</br>

other projects based on or using this library</br>
:point_right: BZ40i Energy Meter by adlerweb (https://github.com/adlerweb/BZ40i_Energy_Meter)</br>
:point_right: DDS238 Energy Meter by E-NINA (https://github.com/E-NINA/dds238_Energy_Meter)</br>
:point_right: ESPEasy by TD-er (https://github.com/TD-er/ESPEasy)</br>
:point_right: Sonoff-Tasmota by arendst (https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota)</br>

---

<i>library version for old esp software serial (5.2.0 - 5.4.0) is available at [old_esp_swserial_520_540 branch](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/tree/old_esp_swserial_520_540)</i><br>
<i>library version for old esp software serial (< 5.2.0) is available at [old_esp_swserial_lib branch](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/tree/old_esp_swserial_lib)</i><br>
<i>old template library version is available at [old_template branch](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/tree/old_template)</i><br>

---

**2016-2020 Reaper7**

[paypal.me/reaper7md](https://www.paypal.me/reaper7md)

Commit message:

add support for DDM18SD by JeroenSt bump version

README.md, after:

## Library for reading SDM72 SDM120 SDM220 SDM230 SDM630 DDM18SD Modbus Energy meters. ##

### SECTIONS: ###
#### 1. [INTRODUCTION](#introduction) ####
#### 2. [SCREENSHOTS](#screenshots) ####
#### 3. [CONFIGURING](#configuring) ####
#### 4. [INITIALIZING](#initializing) ####
#### 5. [READING](#reading) ####
#### 6. [PROBLEMS](#problems) ####
#### 7. [CREDITS](#credits) ####

---

### Introduction: ###
This library allows you reading SDM module(s) using:
- [x] Hardware Serial (<i><b>recommended option</b>, smallest number of reads errors, especially for esp8266</i>) <b><i>or</i></b>
- [x] Software Serial, attached as core libraries for esp8266 and avr</br>
     (<i>the new version of esp Software Serial library</br>
      has a different initialization compared to avr!</br>
      <b>This version of SDM library (>=2.0.8) works only with esp Software Serial 6.0.0 or higher!!!</b></br>
      If you have an older esp Software Serial version</br>
      then use other SDM library, details below the Credits section</i>)</br>

you also need rs232<->rs485 converter:
- [x] with automatic flow direction control (<i>look at images below</i>) <b><i>or</i></b>
- [x] with additional pins for flow control, like MAX485</br>
     (<i>in this case MAX485 DE and RE pins must be connected together to one of uC pin</br>
     and this pin must be passed when initializing the library</i>)

_Tested on Wemos D1 Mini with Arduino IDE 1.8.3-1.8.10 & ESP8266 core 2.3.0-2.5.2_

---

### Screenshots: ###
<img src="https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/img/hardware_sdm220_1.jpg" height="330"><img src="https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/img/hardware_sdm220_2.jpg" height="330"></br>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/img/livepage.gif"></br>
  <i>live page example (extended) screenshot</i>
</p>

---

### Configuring: ###
Default configuration is specified in the [SDM.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM.h#L18) file, and parameters are set to:</br>
<i>Software Serial mode, baud 4800, uart config SERIAL_8N1, without DE/RE pin,</br>
uart pins for esp32 hwserial and esp32/esp8266/avr swserial as NOT_A_PIN (-1).</br></br>
For esp32 hwserial this means using the default pins for the selected uart port,</br>
specified in the core library (HardwareSerial.cpp).</br>
For swserial option (esp32/esp8266/avr) is necessary</br>
to specify the pin numbers, as described below.</i>

User can set the parameters in two ways:
- by editing the [SDM_Config_User.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM_Config_User.h) file
- by passing values during initialization (section below)

NOTE for Hardware Serial mode: <i>to force the Hardware Serial mode,</br>
user must edit the corresponding entry in [SDM_Config_User.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM_Config_User.h#L17) file.</br>
adding #define USE_HARDWARESERIAL to the main ino file is not enough.</i>

---

### Initializing: ###
If the user configuration is specified in the [SDM_Config_User.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM_Config_User.h) file</br>
or if the default configuration from the [SDM.h](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM.h#L18) file is suitable</br>
initialization is limited to passing serial port reference (software or hardware)</br>
and looks as follows:
```cpp
//lib init when Software Serial is used:
#include <SDM.h>
#include <SoftwareSerial.h>

// for ESP8266 and ESP32
SoftwareSerial swSerSDM;
//              _______________________________software serial reference
//             |
SDM sdm(swSerSDM);


// for AVR
SoftwareSerial swSerSDM(SDM_RX_PIN, SDM_TX_PIN);
//                               |           |_tx pin definition(from SDM_Config_User.h)
//                               |_____________rx pin definition(from SDM_Config_User.h)
//
//              _______________________________software serial reference
//             |
SDM sdm(swSerSDM);
```

```cpp
//lib init when Hardware Serial is used:
#include <SDM.h>

//            _________________________________hardware serial reference
//           |
SDM sdm(Serial);
```
If the user wants to temporarily change the configuration during the initialization process</br>
then can pass additional parameters as below:
```cpp
//lib init when Software Serial is used:
#include <SDM.h>
#include <SoftwareSerial.h>

// for ESP8266 and ESP32
SoftwareSerial swSerSDM;
//              ________________________________________software serial reference
//             |      __________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |           _______________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |              _________software uart config(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |             |    _____rx pin number(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |             |   |    _tx pin number(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |             |   |   | 
SDM sdm(swSerSDM, 9600, NOT_A_PIN, SWSERIAL_8N1, 13, 15);


// for AVR
SoftwareSerial swSerSDM(10, 11);
//              ________________________________________software serial reference
//             |      __________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)   
//             |     |           _______________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//             |     |          |
SDM sdm(swSerSDM, 9600, NOT_A_PIN);
```

```cpp
//lib init when Hardware Serial is used:
#include <SDM.h>

// for ESP8266
//            ______________________________________hardware serial reference
//           |      ________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |           _____________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |            _________hardware uart config(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |       __swap hw serial pins from 3/1 to 13/15(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |      |
SDM sdm(Serial, 9600, NOT_A_PIN, SERIAL_8N1, false);


// for ESP32
//            ______________________________________hardware serial reference
//           |      ________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |           _____________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |            _________hardware uart config(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |    _____rx pin number(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |   |    _tx pin number(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |   |   | 
SDM sdm(Serial, 9600, NOT_A_PIN, SERIAL_8N1, 13, 15);


// for AVR
//            ______________________________________hardware serial reference
//           |      ________________________________baudrate(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |           _____________________dere pin for max485(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |            _________hardware uart config(optional, default from SDM_Config_User.h)
//           |     |          |           |
//           |     |          |           |
SDM sdm(Serial, 9600, NOT_A_PIN, SERIAL_8N1);
```
NOTE for ESP8266: <i>when GPIO15 is used (especially for swapped hardware serial):</br>
some converters (like mine) have built-in pullup resistors on TX/RX lines from rs232 side,</br>
connection this type of converters to ESP8266 pin GPIO15 block booting process.</br>
In this case you can replace the pull-up resistor on converter with higher value (100k),</br>
to ensure low level on GPIO15 by built-in in most ESP8266 modules pulldown resistor.</br></i>

---

### Reading: ###
List of available registers for SDM72/120/220/230/630:</br>
https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM.h#L90
```cpp
//reading voltage from SDM with slave address 0x01 (default)
//                                         ____register name
//                                        |
float voltage = sdm.readVal(SDM_PHASE_1_VOLTAGE);

//reading power from 1st SDM with slave address ID = 0x01
//reading power from 2nd SDM with slave address ID = 0x02
//useful with several meters on RS485 line
//                                      _______register name
//                                     |       SDM device ID  
//                                     |      |
float power1 = sdm.readVal(SDM_PHASE_1_POWER, 0x01);
float power2 = sdm.readVal(SDM_PHASE_1_POWER, 0x02);
```
NOTE: <i>if you reading multiple SDM devices on the same RS485 line,</br>
remember to set the same transmission parameters on each device,</br>
only ID must be different for each SDM device.</i>

---

### Problems: ###
Sometimes <b>readVal</b> return <b>NaN</b> value (not a number),</br>
this means that the requested value could not be read from the sdm module for various reasons.</br>

__Please check out open and close issues, maybe the cause of your error is explained or solved there.__

The most common problems are:
- weak or poorly filtered power supply / LDO, causing NaN readings and ESP crashes</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/13#issuecomment-353532711</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/13#issuecomment-353572909</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/8#issuecomment-381402008</br>
- faulty or incorrectly prepared converter</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/16#issue-311042308</br>
- faulty esp module</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/8#issuecomment-381398551</br>
- many users report that between each readings should be placed <i>delay(50);</i></br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/7#issuecomment-272080139</br>
  (I did not observe such problems using the HardwareSerial connection)</br>
- using GPIO15 without checking signal level (note above)</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/17#issue-313606825</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/13#issuecomment-353413146</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/13#issuecomment-353417658</br>
- compilation error for hardware serial mode</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/23</br>
  https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/issues/24</br>

You can get last error code using function:
```cpp
//get last error code
//                                      ______optional parameter,
//                                     |      true -> read and reset error code
//                                     |      false or no parameter -> read error code
//                                     |      but not reset stored code (for future checking)
//                                     |      will be overwriten when next error occurs
uint16_t lasterror = sdm.getErrCode(true);

//clear error code also available with:
sdm.clearErrCode();
```
Errors list returned by <b>getErrCode</b>:</br>
https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/blob/master/SDM.h#L73</br>

You can also check total number of errors using function:
```cpp
//get total errors counter
//                                       _____optional parameter,
//                                      |     true -> read and reset errors counter
//                                      |     false or no parameter -> read errors counter
//                                      |     but not reset stored counter (for future checking)
uint16_t cnterrors = sdm.getErrCount(true);

//clear errors counter also available with:
sdm.clearErrCount();
```

And finally you can read the counter of correctly made readings:
```cpp
//get total success counter
//                                         ___optional parameter,
//                                        |   true -> read and reset success counter
//                                        |   false or no parameter -> read success counter
//                                        |   but not reset stored counter (for future checking)
uint16_t cntsuccess = sdm.getSuccCount(true);

//clear success counter also available with:
sdm.clearSuccCount();
```

---

### Credits: ###

contribution to this project:</br>
:+1: ESP SoftwareSerial library by Peter Lerup (https://github.com/plerup/espsoftwareserial)</br>
:+1: crc calculation by Jaime García (https://github.com/peninquen/Modbus-Energy-Monitor-Arduino)</br>
:+1: new registers for SDM120 and SDM630 by bart.e (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/3)</br>
:+1: new registers for SDM72 by jegaha (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/34)</br>
:+1: new registers for SDM120CT by JeroenSt (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/41)</br>
:+1: additional SDM630 registers and influxdb example by AndersV209 (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/45)</br>
:+1: additional DDM18SD registers by JeroenSt (https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/pull/44)</br>

other projects based on or using this library</br>
:point_right: BZ40i Energy Meter by adlerweb (https://github.com/adlerweb/BZ40i_Energy_Meter)</br>
:point_right: DDS238 Energy Meter by E-NINA (https://github.com/E-NINA/dds238_Energy_Meter)</br>
:point_right: ESPEasy by TD-er (https://github.com/TD-er/ESPEasy)</br>
:point_right: Sonoff-Tasmota by arendst (https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota)</br>

---

<i>library version for old esp software serial (5.2.0 - 5.4.0) is available at [old_esp_swserial_520_540 branch](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/tree/old_esp_swserial_520_540)</i><br>
<i>library version for old esp software serial (< 5.2.0) is available at [old_esp_swserial_lib branch](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/tree/old_esp_swserial_lib)</i><br>
<i>old template library version is available at [old_template branch](https://github.com/reaper7/SDM_Energy_Meter/tree/old_template)</i><br>

---

**2016-2020 Reaper7**

[paypal.me/reaper7md](https://www.paypal.me/reaper7md)
